Question: What is upcasting in Java?

A) Converting a subclass object to a superclass reference.
B) Converting a superclass object to a subclass reference.
C) Converting primitive data types.
D) Converting reference data types.
Answer: A) Converting a subclass object to a superclass reference.
Question: When is downcasting safe in Java?

A) Always safe if the types are related.
B) Only safe if done implicitly.
C) Requires the use of instanceof operator to check.
D) Downcasting is never safe.
Answer: C) Requires the use of instanceof operator to check.
Polymorphism
Question: What is polymorphism in Java?
A) The ability to have multiple constructors in a class.
B) The ability of a method to be present in multiple classes.
C) The ability of an object to take many forms.
D) The ability to have private methods in a class.
Answer: C) The ability of an object to take many forms.
Method Binding
Question: Which type of method binding occurs during method overloading in Java?
A) Dynamic Binding.
B) Early Binding.
C) Late Binding.
D) Static Binding.
Answer: D) Static Binding.
Interface
Question: Which keyword is used to implement an interface in Java?
A) extend
B) implement
C) inherits
D) extends
Answer: B) implement
Abstract Class
Question: Which of the following statements is true about abstract classes in Java?
A) An abstract class cannot have any abstract methods.
B) An abstract class can be instantiated.
C) Abstract classes cannot inherit from other classes.
D) Abstract classes must have all methods implemented.
Answer: D) Abstract classes must have all methods implemented.
Nested Classes
Question: What type of nested class cannot access static members of its enclosing class without an instance?
A) Static Nested Class.
B) Inner Class.
C) Local Class.
D) Anonymous Class.
Answer: B) Inner Class.
Annotation
Question: Which annotation in Java indicates that a method is intended to override a superclass method?
A) @Override
B) @Overload
C) @Inherit
D) @Extend
Answer: A) @Override
